map-join-with-dan.rkt

This version had the original sk/fk behavior, and wasn't where it
needed to go yet.

map-join-with-dan-2.rkt

This is where we first inserted the dk, although not yet at the right
places and positions.

map-join-with-dan-3.rkt

This is the area where we put in the nat streams, before jumping deep
end into the other streams stuff.

map-join-with-dan-4.rkt

Dan and I were trying to understand the behavior of the just nats
streams stuff, and that was still confusing, and figuring out the
behavior of the interleaving was tricky. So, what we had to do instead
was to break it down to a little cycle of $n$ (3) relations, so we
could watch that.

map-join-with-dan-5.rkt

We decided that the sk didn't take a dk; the only place this
manifested in the main code (outside of "run" or what have you) was in
the (lambda (b) of the map, which now no longer takes a dk. This file
defined bind in terms of map and join, so we needed no other changes.

map-join-with-dan-6.rkt

We moved the dk from the middle, to being last. Which I now think was
the wrong decision, but didn't know that at the time. I think I was
thinking about having it curried out, and currying it out from the
front rather than from the back.

map-join-with-dan-7.rkt

This is where we tried to implement bind as bind, and round-trip it so
that we implemented join and map via bind. Doesn't look fully
successful right now, b/c this implementation of bind has map and join
embedded in it.

There's another, better put together bind in this same file, that has
bind's sk pulled out (in-code comment used the anaphora 'it') into a
separate top-level function. And it looks significantly cleaner (I marvelled at that).

But I have trouble here and right now understanding how we got to
here. I might have to re-derive these bind implementations from here.

map-join-with-dan-7b.rkt

Here it looks like we went and moved the fk back after the dk. We also
introduced Mitch's star operator, which I can't precisely remember or
understand right now.

This at least looks correct viz. the bind vs. map and join
situation. I think I've eta'd out the fk here, but it seems at least
like I've got the recursive bind lining up correctly.

The bottom of this file has two interesting commented out definitions
of bind. I don't know how, but the last one seemingly removed the map
and join from the penultimate one, into a single recursive bind.

map-join-with-dan-8.rkt

This backed off of Mitch's star operator. 

It also has a bind with an sk that eats a result of a computation, and
then an fk. And I don't know if that makes sense or not. But it seems
to drop the dk. 

Upon further look, not sure this was a good file to go from. Might
have been a lacuna/eddy/mistake file.

map-join-with-dan-8b.rkt

compare against 7b, actually. We did swap the order of the arguments
into bind w/dk first, but I think skipped the implementations of map and join.

map-join-with-dan-8c.rkt

Really, this one is almost just reformatting and better printing

map-join-with-dan-9.rkt

This seems to remove the newstar operation that was in 8c. 

map-join-with-dan-10.rkt

I believe this was merely uncurrying; attempting to make things a bit
clearer and cleaner.
